# Radio_Meshnet_Overview
## Scope of the project Radio Meshnet
The aim of the project is the development of an autonomous mesh network under real conditions with the aim of emergency communication independent of electricity and the Internet. Here, the theoretical planning of such networks is to be transferred to reality. Function and reliability is to be tested and optimized with a large number of participants over long distances. In the first step, a messenger app must be developed (Kommunikator) and the necessary wireless hardware Loradio/ WLAN mesh/ CB radio for the selected network stack Reticulum from Mark Quist. In step two, the actual project goal is sought. With a large number of willing users and provided hardware/software, a mesh network is created under the umbrella of a foundation and the runtimes as well as the message loss recorded by the users and statistically evaluated by the project management. As a result, an assessment of the feasibility of real autonomous networks is to be carried out which should lead to the subsequent successful implementation of an extensive emergency communication network, possibly EU-wide.  In this network user will be self identified (DID) but can save encrypted communicate and maybe exchange goods and information to make it possible to survive in disaster situations with mutual help.  For this purpose, part of the project is the possible integration of a low bandwidth tolerant blockchain into the network. This has never really been implemented at the moment. Suitable blockchains such as beam, mina etc. are to be examined for this purpose.
